Null
on this edition for Sunday July 28
Secretary of State Kerry says there is
an enormous amount of
evidence that down Malaysian airliner
with 298 people on board
was brought down by a russian-made
missile a sharp escalation of fighting
in Gaza
13 israeli soldiers and dozens of
palestinians are killed
and in our signature segment new
incentive programs they get you to do
what you wanna do
but can't so for instance your pro-gun
control
you succeed within your means the NRA
work
vice versa next on PBS Newshour weekend
from the tisch
WNET studios at Lincoln Center in New
York hari Sreenivasan
good evening thanks for joining us
a pro-russian separatists leader said
today that critical
evidence has been recovered from the
Malaysia Airlines Boeing triple seven
that evidently were shot down Thursday
near the Ukrainian Russian border
298 people died mushrooms cause actual I
can tell you that as a today
we have found some at the technical
details of this plane which we suppose
can be those
so-called black boxes Secretary of State
John Kerry said today the United States
has what he called an enormous amount of
evidence that program Shin separatist
shot down the plane with a russian-made
surface-to-air missile
we have intercepted voices that have
been documented by our people through
intelligence
as being separatists who are talking to
each other about the shootdown
and we know that we have a video now
are a transporter removing
an ass a 11 system back into russia
and it shows a missing nestle urself so
there's enormous amount about missed for
more we're joined now via Skype from
Ukraine by Sabrina
Taveuni southern New York time so the
evidence that secretary Kerry
is pointing to is is the same as what
the Ukrainian intelligence officials
have been talking about
I do it appears to be the same added
we've been hearing from the ukrainians
on their spend a lot of fun I you know
they've been YouTube clips their bench
photographs there
band a number of things that the
Americans near Greenspoint you as
asserted evidence that that this a
who actually shot this thing down. so
they're also lots of people interested
in the black box who has it now the
black box flight recorders where does it
go
so yes there's been a lot of discussion
about the black box I mean
I sleep this scene of the crash
is done at this point kinda incredible
place i mean it's in
very chaotic it has stirred different
group of volunteers and content but
motley local citizens and
essentially they have no babies don't
have enough
I don't manpower or expertise war
I'm iron people to sort it do it
so it's been very slow and quite
incompetence II and the fact that they
haven't found the black boxes were
I suppose now that their service saying
that they have found them it's all very
chaotic at home
your I'm but it isn't particularly
surprising giving the
IBP the absolute Scheibel
recovery effort so the dutch Prime
Minister was
making statements saying that he's
shocked and he's disgusted by how the
bodies have been treated
you went to one of the areas where a lot
of these bodies are stored now in
refrigerator railcars
where are those bodies going to go and
who's going to
look after them you know they're they're
any setup
train cars in mister very greedy
fly blown city called to read
coal-mining town
om what the here government says is that
rebels get actually blocked their exit
said that the rebels aren't letting the
train at their on Wii U
arm and what the rebels say is that they
want to release the bodies to
international representatives
would claim their telling a telling all
journalists to call the international
representatives to dance so they can
find the bodies
on very unclear to what extent
on you know both sides are being
disingenuous and this
what sort of access to the international
observers have today
I V international observers spent quite
a bit of time at the crash site today
they were out taking pictures
I'm you know walking the perimeter kinda
on
they had large security detail other
also
or representatives from here the
Ukrainian government representatives
taking photographs and walking around in
the site of the wreckage
so there is that quite a big passer four
and he will present
at the crash site that didn't appear to
be injured sorry it happened to the new
york times thanks so much
thank you turning now to the conflict in
the Middle East Secretary of State Kerry
today also offered a robust defensive
Israel's military operations
2n rocket fire from Gaza and to destroy
hidden tunnels their
carry called on Hamas to negotiate we
defend Israel's right to do what it is
doing in order to get those tunnels
israel has accepted a unilateral
cease-fire
its accepted the Egyptian plan which we
also support
and it is important for how much the dow
step up
and be reasonable and understand that
you accept a cease-fire
you save lives and that's the way we can
proceed to have a discussion about
all of the underlying issues which
president Obama has clearly indicated a
willingness to do
this as Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu voiced regret
about civilian casualties in Gaza but
said the Israeli military
will press on I support you in whatever
action is necessary to
stop this insane situation just imagine
I mean imagine what Israel's going
through
imagine that seventy-five percent of the
US population is under rocket fire
and they have to be um in bomb shelters
within 60 to 90 seconds
so I'm not just talking about new york
new york Washington
Chicago Detroit San Francisco Miami you
name it
I'll thats impossible you can't live
like that for more about all this we're
joined once again tonight by Joe your
door and she is the new york times
bureau chief in jerusalem we just heard
benjamin netanyahu saying
pretty much any means necessary what
else is left
well I mean you know they it can always
ask leading the other day
forces at with the variably day there
with that very intense battle in the
neighborhood
she's I am in nike's Gaza City
on the deadliest day at the complex so
far more than 60 palestinians and now we
have 13 israeli soldiers were killed in
that battle
but a it there could be more and more
urban warfare there
and this is the most serious setback
that Israel's faced in this
most recent conflict thirteen soldiers
at once
it was the entire casualty amount from
the 2008-2009
Operation Cast Lead I'm I think this is
the deadliest day for Israel in quite a
while
so our soldiers being evacuated are
there more soldiers on the borders
I'm there are dozens that soldiers to
have been taken to israeli hospitals and
are being treated including a very
senior commander
about the Golani Brigade that was that
we're all 13 belong to you
I don't know either whether soldiers are
retreat gaynor how they're regrouping
there was a brief
and shortage not fully exercise halted
happily this afternoon
to let some humanitarian help getting to
the show yet neighborhoods and I
ambulances and everything
but I believe the fighting has and here
yesterday we reference to ban Ki moon at
the united nations were supposed to come
to the region now we hear that he's in
Qatar
any update on any cease-fire
negotiations are any conversations that
sort
nothing concrete or significance but
at president at what about that the
Palestinian Authority I believe is also
in cut that today
and maybe meeting today with Howard
mashup political cheap
Hamas which is a significant that step
significant meeting and
could yield something there's increasing
calls from the Americans and the
Israelites to you
not let present II kinda X that's and be
and get it
get a grip I'm got that which is an
interesting turn around
from israel's position when a bath and
how not
find a reconciliation pact April and and
basically is rather than calling on
President about you and I
cancel that act ever sense but now that
maybe he is God thank you
you can sound birthed you help I resolve
this crisis alright jodie word or in a
New York Times joining us via Skype
thanks so much
thank you as you just heard there's been
a sharp escalation of fighting in Gaza
with those 13 israeli soldiers and
approximately a hundred Palestinians
killed in clashes early today
since the conflict began more than 400
Palestinians have been killed
the White House said today secretary
Kerry is heading to Egypt to try to
broker a cease-fire
President Obama called prime minister
netanyahu to express serious concern
about the growing number of casualties
today a top UN relief agency officials
said at least a thousand homes in gaza
have been destroyed or damaged beyond
repair and medical supplies are running
low
he also said there's been a surge in the
number of Palestinians seeking refuge in
UN shelters
we've had massive displacement and we've
had a tripling in the number of
displaced in the schools that we're on
here in gaza over the course of the last
couple of days
I'm just received figures were now it's
seventy thousand
displays moved into 55 or 57 our schools
for more about the situation on the
ground there we're joined on the phone
by Noah browning
avoiders he is in Gaza City know it you
just very short distance away from this
neighborhood
that we've been hearing about all day
call should J year
tell us about what happened there well i
i would say that
this is by far the bloodiest day the
current thirteen-day conflict to change
is really
and Palestinian militants and it's one
of the bloodiest days
in the modern history the
israeli-palestinian conflict
very early hours of this morning in this
border town of peace in Gaza City
called church I heavy israeli shelling
started raining down in the early hours
causing severe damage and approaching
the scene early hours of this morning
there is a really
pitiful sight a thousands of people
pouring out pouring in land westward
for families barefoot children very
worried people
as it puts the general mood in the Gaza
Strip in a very stressed out
anxious state of mind but what about the
hospitals in the area how are they
coping with the injured
hospitals here overwhelmed a broder's
college visiting area said that they
were
just gas three scenes of dead and
wounded coming in
headless children burned women
people had to be treated on the floor of
the hospital for lack of space
and unfortunately the shelling continued
most of the day in this affected area so
that paramedics could not reach the
scene
actually one palestinian paramedic in a
local journalists were killed
in the morning trying to approach the
area what about the border with Egypt we
are hearing the Egypt turned back a
group of doctors who are trying to come
in today
what about the people from Gaza trying
to flee in that direction
it's a very difficult situation for
local people trying to escape this
violent
as you know Gaza is one of the most
densely populated areas in the face of
the earth
faces a blockade are all its borders
northeast
with Israel and the west and the
Mediterranean the South
Egypt's Egypt are not allowed a free
flow of goods and people
through its border crossing with Gaza
since last year
whenever the military takeover from it's
not us who had been sympathetic to Hamas
see you you tend to think that the new
leadership egypt is not terribly
concerned with the humanitarian a
political situation going on Gaza right
now
alright Noah browning avoiders thanks so
much thank you
back in this country those wildfires in
north central washington state which
were ignited by lightning last Monday
are now burning in an area spanning
approximately 250,000 acres
after many days and gusty winds and high
temperatures cooler weather spread
briefly over the area today
that's encouraging news for the more
than 2,000 firefighters battling the
huge blaze
we don't often bring you sports but
worry McElroy who grew up in Northern
Ireland has won the British Open
defeating American Rickie Fowler and
Sergio Garcia of Spain by two strokes
the reason we mention this is because
McElroy wasn't the only winner
ten years ago his father and three
friends
bet against five hundred to one of its
that McElroy
then a teenager would win the open
before he turned 26
today there four hundred-pound back paid
off to the tune of 200,000 pounds or
approximately three hundred and
forty-one thousand dollars
McElroy is 25
and James Garner who rose to fame in the
nineteen fifties hit series maverick and
later starred in the Rockford Files has
died
he was eighty-six years old what
you heard me where the tapes and walk as
some kind of joke right he got some real
snappy Priceline you wanna lay on
caps and I said and the last summer
fine mind I'd like to be able to carry
around a while
you must be rockford
and now to our signature segment our
original in-depth reports from around
the nation
and around the world whether you're
saving for retirement or trying to lose
weight
even if you have the best intentions
it's often difficult to do what you need
to do
but what if you could be not judged into
making better choices
new companies are using behavioral
economics to devise new incentive
programs that help us follow through
is our special correspondent column with
the reports like many Americans
byron Dorgan a freelance editor and
writer in charlottesville virginia
often procrastinate I knew that
professionally
I needed a website and I had been I
have the domain name I you know me
Lissabon any
on it for law but in 2012
she learned about an online program that
would push her to get the project done
or else she would lose fifty dollars
it's an example
love behavioral economics at work
according to Dean Karlan
a Yale University economist about
realizing that
you're going to respond to incentives
and if you don't like the way you're
going to respond
you can change those incentives you can
change the price if things by being a
bit self-aware and thinking ahead
understanding how people respond to
incentives essential to behavioral
economics
field which looks at the psychology
behind economic decisions
this new science is being used to help
people
nudge them on everything from making
better healthcare decisions
to maximizing energy efficiency the
limits big issues is
is an improving people's financial
choices an area in which many Americans
don't excel
the personal savings rate is less than
half of what it was a generation ago
and an estimated $56 million Americans
have virtually no
retirement savings financial education
has
actually had not great results in terms
of getting people to change behavior
Josh Wright is the executive director
ideas 42
a nonprofit that works with companies
foundations and governments to apply
lessons from behavioral economics
key points to a study showed how
committing to save more
not even today but in the future
dramatically increase retirement savings
one of the interesting things about
people's financial lives is the usually
know what they want to do where they
have an intention to save more
span last I'm get greater control over
their finances and a lot of it has to do
with
following through on those desires and
intentions and there's a lot that the
hero science can do along with
technology to help us
help people help themselves really to do
what they want to do
and new businesses have taken some
medicine sites to heart
Washington dc-based hello wallet
provides financial computer software
including budgeting and retirement tools
from place a big companies across the
country so we serve
manufacturers we serve the people who
are putting ketchup and Hines bottles
as well as we serve investment bankers
quite the range between
Steve wendell is a behavioral researcher
and principal scientist at hello wyland
he got his PhD in political science
studying voter behavior and he's written
a book about using behavioral economics
to create products that appeal to
consumers
went to scientists doing at a personal
finance software company
I help identify where the behavior of
calls that people face
come up with ideas on help them overcome
those obstacles
and then a test test and see
does this actually help people does this
actually
put more money in the bank account
overtime so
bottom line are we helping people one
test wendell devised
look at the effect have competition on
financial behavior
by creating peer comparisons we said
okay
will have one version where on you get
is
your current score one version where you
get nothing
and another version we get this pure
comparison to you see not only your
score
but you see how other people like you
are doing it turns out that people who
were shown to peer comparison
saved hundreds more in a one-month test
so
just knowing that score or what share
neighbor scoring
help everyone no now now the really
there is no
silver bullet in the behavior what thing
we always remember is that people are
different
our experiences are different and so our
goal with hella while
is to adapt to the individual meet them
where they are
but it's not all about providing
positive incentives are carrots
when it comes to helping people make
better decisions sticks to calm
is an Internet company co founded by
economist Dean Karlan in 2007
it provides stick or negative incentive
to influence behavior
it's one of a handful of companies
including be minor and healthy wage
to provide an online platform turning
goals into what are known as commitment
contracts
with steak users put money on the line
for any goal
from trying to lose weight to saving
more money each week
and can designate a referee to oversee
their progress
basically with the research showed is
that a money talks
and when you've got your money on the
line a man you put your money where your
mouth is too much more likely to achieve
your goal
Jordan Goldberg cofounded stick with
Carlin and another professor
when he was an MBA student at Yale he
says the financial stake makes long-term
goals
easier to reach tour literally raising
the price
up your vice your poor behavior raised
the price a failure
so you make the right decision today if
you fail to meet your goal
you lose the money it goes to someone
you've designated
an anonymous charity or you can choose
an anti charity
a cost that you don't believe in so for
instance
your pro-gun control you'll succeed we
can you make the NRA
work vice versa far been ordained chosen
anti charity when she you stick
to motivate her to build her own website
her choice
a political pack she doesn't support
state harm his help me
just over and over just thinking I
do not want so-and-so to get my fifty
dollars
Norton has become an avid stick user
creating goals for everything from
keeping up with chores
to writing my each day likened to do
that on your on with stopping you from
doing that and had a
stick you name it was always so easy to
Ciara's put it off a little longer
whatever the
excuse why cystic com races
that kind of accountability to a for
more
money on the line kinda level for you
don't have to put money on the line
but my feeling is like what's the point
if there's not a real
their sicko founder Dean Karlan
and a fellow economist know just what
she's talking about
they once agreed to each pay the other
half a year salary
if they regained weight they had
previously lost so
happening cometh like thousands of
dollars
yeah we wanted to make it so that it was
painful and had to be otherwise
the other ways if you fail there's a
risk that you feel when you just gonna
strike it up to
kinda the cost to an expensive dinner
and nor even a vacation but it had to be
enough by the we
knew that we would do it um and there
would be painful but it couldn't be so
much money that we couldn't physically
write the check
his friend did eventually regain the
weight and paid carlin
fifteen thousand dollars and it
surprised a lot of people but he
you know II made him pay and he paid so
that kinda think he should the waist etc
works mean it has to be painful enough
for each individual
person that that is exactly the idea the
key the key to stick really is one being
self-aware
what is the right amount that is enough
that you'll be
honest with yourself if you fail and be
able to pay it if you failed but enough
so that it'll actually motivate you to
change
well carlin is no longer involved with
stick he still regularly incorporates
insights from behavioral economics
into his everyday life when we order
dessert I just want one by
you with the rest but I want one but no
more Bilaspur second by
a hundred dollars devising ways to
motivate change
whether to drop more pounds or to save
more money
to learn more about what some financial
companies are doing to help you save
money
visit newshour not pvs data work
this is PBS Newshour weekend sunday
in yesterday I spoke with Melanie
Eversley have USA today about the
decriminalization of marijuana in
Washington DC this past week
here's an excerpt of the conversation
what's the new rules specifically in DC
it basically T criminalizes possession
up to an out of of marijuana if you are
caught
with that on your person on instead
being subject to criminal penalties
what you would get is a twenty five
dollar ticket it also changes a couple
of other things
if police now marijuana while they're on
their be
they can no longer search a person for
it if they
on also find up to an ounce of marijuana
on a person and they can no longer
automatically search them
but federal and in DC is exempt from
that's right that's rarely affects
nonfederal and is this a sign of kinda a
changing attitude across the nation
about this issue this is obviously the
nation's capital yeah
what i've seen is that and people
overwhelmingly
on social media at least are responding
in a way that suggests that
on they feel that maybe it is time to
considered decriminalization in a lot of
places
so I just across the river in brooklyn
the DA he resorted to your dick realize
that as well
yeah problem DA pointed out that the
people who tend to be
affected by I'm low-level drug offenses
are young
minority men and he declared that he was
no longer going to prosecute such cases
because he felt when people are
convicted of these crimes
it affects the rest of their lives in
terms of finding housing
in terms of getting scholarships besides
what you hear on social media there are
other people there are other legislators
in different states around the country
they're pushing back that
don't agree with this right I would say
that the strongest argument
against is that and their studies that
have shown
that when one uses marijuana it produces
changes in the brain that makes one
want to seek out stronger trucks the
rent
some late news before we leave you
tonight hamas claims to have captured an
Israeli soldier during fighting in Gaza
undersecretary of state Rick Stengel
says he made a mistake when he posted a
tweet with the hashtag United for Gaza
he later deleted it it's been another
violent weekend in Chicago at least 40
people were shot 4 of them fatally one
of those killed was in
11-year-old girl attending a slumber
party and nasa tonight is webcasting the
first-ever
moonwalk forty-five years ago today the
webcast began to $10.39
Eastern a moment Neil Armstrong open the
hatch on his spacecraft
and began his historic giant leap for
mankind join us on air and online
tomorrow on the news hour judy Woodruff
sits down with the latest Medal of Honor
recipient I'm hiring hari Sreenivasan
thanks for watching
the No
ok